fact check did Hamas bead babies let's
look at what we know so far about where
this claim came from and why some media
outlets and the White House have
retracted the claim on Saturday October
7th Hamas attacked the kibuts of karza
members of the media were granted
permission on October 10th 3 Days Later
by the Israeli Army to visitar Aza and
witness the aftermath of the Hamas
attack during the visit a reporter from
Israeli News Outlet I24 tweeted saying
soldiers told me they believe 40 babies
children were killed as the day
progressed the information morphed from
at least 40 babies were killed to some
were beheaded on the day the Israeli
Army could not confirm beheadings the
very next day in London commuters were
subjected to this horrifying and
unverified headline on October 11th many
Western media Outlets jumped on that
claim quoting the spokesman of Israel's
prime minister the Israeli Prime
Minister spokesman just confirmed babies
and toddlers were found with their heads
decapitated in kafar AA but many of
those same media Outlets were forced to
walk back their reporting issuing
updates like this one Israel cannot
confirm the specific claim that babies
were beheaded in Hamas attack later that
day during a press conference American
President Joe Biden claimed he had seen
photographs of beheaded babies saying
I never really thought that I would see
and have
confirmed pictures of
terrorists beheading children the White
House later retracted the statement and
published this correction Us official
and the president have not seen pictures
nor confirmed such reports independently
but the damage had been done Biden's
initial claims were already featured on
the front pages of many news outlets and
continued to be cited in some importers
as justification for Revenge attacks and
the collective punishment of civilians
in Gaza once these claims went viral
other journalists who were on the same
visit to Kar Aza on the 10th of October
say no one spoke to me about beheadings
let alone beheadings of children let
alone beheadings of 40 children another
Israeli journalist said during the tour
we didn't see any evidence of this and
the Army spokesperson or commanders also
didn't mention any such incidents Sky
News correspondent on the ground also
confirms not being able to confirm these
claims we have not seen the evidence of
that we have asked uh the Israeli
Defense Forces the idea three times to
confirm those numbers they have not yet
later the same journalist that
broadcasted the claims of the spokesman
of Israel's prime minister posted an
apology saying the Israeli government
now says today it cannot confirm babies
were beheaded I needed to be more
careful with my words and I am sorry
Hamas has denied claims that its
Fighters beheaded children calling them
lies as details continue to emerge from
the aftermath of the karaza attack the
line between facts and misinformation
has blurred lies and half-truth have
been disseminated by officials and
mainstream media in what is becoming a
propaganda
[Music]
War